Hello, my delicious
co-creators.
Lilous here.
I'm in Toulouse, South of
France with Michael Roads.
Hellos, Michael.
-Good morning, Lilou.
It's lovely being here.
It's cold and brisk and you look
as if it's a hot summer day.
It is absolutely
gorgeous weather.
This man is from Australia.
It's gorgeous.
It's cloudy.
It's cold.
It's gorgeous.
But those clouds,
aren't they great?
Yeah, they're shining.
They're beaming
out, aren't they?
They are.
They're our sun.
When you're with nature, you
can create your own rules
to a certain extent.
When I was about nine
years old, I used to go
and visit a friend of mine.
He had a great aunt
and she was in her 90s.
And she lived in a terraced
house and the back of the house
was a very small garden.
And it had about three
meter walls all around it.
And I at nine, knew
a lot about plants.
I had a collection
of about 200 or 300.
And I would go in her garden
and everything was in flower.
And most of it was in pots,
but everything was in flower.
And I couldn't understand it.
Because generally
speaking, for most plants,
flowers are the result of sun.
There are many
specialist plants.
But generally, the sun is
what brings out the flower.
And in her garden, the sun
hardly ever got in there.
It was in there maybe, even
in the summer, only an hour
or two or three at the most.
And yet, everything
was in flower.
And I used to think about this.
How come these
things are in flower?
They shouldn't be.
And one day, I was watching
her and she stood there,
and she radiating love.
And I realized, wow, she's
the sun in the garden.
Her love was the sun in that
little back yard garden.
And I never forgot
that, obviously.
Since then you really have
this love affair with nature,
and you have this is a
special bond with it.
And I find that this is
essential in our society right
now to go back to nature,
to connect with it,
to see how beautiful it
is, how it is there for us.
What is to you,
the role of nature?
Well, before we can
connect really with nature,
we have to connect
with ourselves.
Before we can
connect with nature,
we have to see that
there's no separation,
and that, if we
look from our eyes
over at those trees and
the plants around us,
we see the space between them.
So we believe that
we're separate.
And we live in a world with
the illusion of separation.
We have words like oneness,
but they're just words.
Scientists talk about a
unified field of energy,
but they never experienced it.
So they have that
intellectually.
They tell us for instance of
the movement, of shall we say,
a bear in Canada affects
a movement of maybe
a kangaroo in Australia.
And that's very nice
as a scientific fact,
but to experience
that connection,
that unified field of energy,
is something very different.
And so when you're
connecting with nature,
the first thing
you have to do is
realize that, shall
we say a tree,
that is a field of energy.
And you are a field of energy.
And the fields of
energy are not separate.
And so if, as a
field of energy, you
go to a tree that is
a field of energy,
you connect in a
place of oneness.
So it's not a person
communicating with a tree.
There's nothing
like that at all.
There is energy
exchanging energy.
Now, all energy is information.
All information is energy.
And so when you
approach a tree, you
are radiating information to
that tree whether you know it
or not.
People go and talk to the
tree and ask it questions.
There's nothing to ask it.
It's already-- it's
like, nature doesn't
have to learn to talk with us.
We have to learn to listen.
And so the first
thing you've got
to do if you're going to
really communicate with a tree
is get past this
communication barrier.
And you do that by listening.
So a tree occupies a moment.
We also occupy the moment.
But we think.
And thinking takes
you out of the moment.
You cannot think your
way into the moment.
So you think about that
when you're not thinking.
You cannot think your
way into the moment.
And people are thinking
like 60,000 thoughts a day,
probably about 80% of
them, negative thoughts.
Trees are not doing that.
There's no thinking.
There's no negative
thoughts going on.
And so people get
disconnected from each other.
And disconnected is a good word.
People are disconnected
from life, from the self,
and therefore from nature.
But nature is connected.
Everything in nature is
connected in that unified field
of energy.
It's not an
intellectual connection.
And we always think that this
has got to be intellectual.
So nature has no intellect
but it has intelligence.
It has consciousness,
despite what
science says to the country.
So a tree doesn't
grow just a tree.
The tree is the
physical reflection
and a metaphysical mirror.
I'll rephrase that.
It's the physical
reflection from the mirror
of a greater reality.
Where the physical
tree is, there
is also a metaphysical
tree, which
means beyond the physical.
And that's where the
communication takes place.
So you mean there is this aura
field around the tree itself
and that's where
it happens like us?
Sometimes you can
see that aura field
but the metaphysical tree
is far more than that.
It's much greater
than the physical.
It's far more beautiful.
It has many colors and it's
just a complete field of energy,
as is the physical tree.
But the field of energy
from which it expresses,
I have seen trees
cut down physically
and I've seen the metaphysical
trees still standing there.
And you're not about
to cut that down.
And it's the same with us.
You lose your physical body,
but you're still alive,
and you're still a being.
You're still a person.
But you no longer
have a physical body.
It's exactly the same in nature.
So in other words,
we are immortal.
Which is nice.
It sort of lasts a long time.
And so every human
being is immortal,
no human being is born
and no human being dies.
It's the same in nature.
Nothing is born.
Nothing dies.
But in nature, the consciousness
of nature knows this.
So nature has no
relationship with death.
Because it doesn't exist
in its reality frame.
We have a relationship with
death because we fear it.
And so we've created
something fearful.
But there is no such thing.
It doesn't exist.
So you sit beneath a tree and
you allow your field of energy
to connect.
Is that at this point, do we
have to raise our own frequency
also to be there?
Some people say that,
so I was wondering.
What an interesting question.
Many people couldn't
do this because they
would sit there and think.
But if you're sitting there
and you're not thinking,
and you're just a silent
as you can be but certainly
your thoughts are raised.
If you have raised.
So, yes, you're thinking love
and respect and appreciation,
and things like that.
That definitely
lifts your energy.
No question.
This is what the
transition's all about,
this energetic shift.
And the dimensional
shift, it's pure energy,
pure consciousness.
Anyway and so you
listen, you listen.
Now I used to go
down by the river.
And I had an old bridge board.
And I would sit there each day.
And I would spend an hour or
two listening to the river.
And at first all I heard
was the physical river.
It took me six
years of going down
to learn to listen to nature.
I used to just sit and listen.
And one time I was down
there and the river
said, do you see me as new?
And I knew I didn't.
And so I had to
learn to see newness.
And what I learned was,
only the newness of me
could see the newness of life
and the newness of a river.
But when I learned how
to finally do that,
it's as though the river stopped
flowing on the outside of me
and flowed through me.
Because I was-- and I don't
mean the physical mean.
I don't like rivers flowing
from the physical me.
It doesn't help
with your breathing.
Don't even like rain
flowing through me.
So what I'm saying is,
and so the field of energy
allows nature to
move through it.
And so we see ourselves walking
in a forest through nature.
But when you move into
yourself as a field of energy,
you can sit in
the forest and let
the forest move through you.
But people don't
do that, especially
when they get my age.
They say, oh, I walked
25 kilometers a day
through such and such forest.
Another one, oh, I did 30 today.
Isn't that good.
And I was talking to a group of
these ones and I said to them,
did anybody ever consider doing
like 100 meters of actually
seeing what you walk past?
Having a loop, and looking at
the holes of trap door spiders
and seeing how many spider
holes on little trap doors
there are just along
five meters of ground.
And of course they
didn't do that.
And they didn't receive the
comment very well either.
And so, you have to begin with
the idea-- it's not an idea.
It's a truth.
It is a reality.
But you have to begin by
moving into the direction
that you, as being of
energy, can expand that.
There's no borders
and boundaries
to the field of energy you are.
And as you expand, you
connect with every other field
of energy on the
planet until every tree
and everything is within self.
And so you realize there's
nothing outside self.
And that self is
the being you are.
And when you get to that place,
then communicating with nature
is just a matter of listening.
Because nature is in the moment.
You're in the moment
and communication flows.
You don't really have
to say or think anything
because you're communicating.
By being in the moment,
your field of energy
is communicating.
It's in constant communication.
I mean, this is going to
be a bit controversial.
You'll probably
like that anyway.
But our DNA, on a
metaphysical level,
are like a worm
hole or a vortex.
You're familiar
with a the wormhole?
OK, so as we have input coming
into us through our chakras,
which are the wheels
of energy within us,
that go into our cells.
In the cells is the DNA.
The DNA takes all that
energy, our input,
and communicates it
out to the world,
simply as energy,
beyond the world,
right out through the universe.
It's all communicated as energy.
At the same time,
those wormholes
are receiving energy,
which is information
from the universe around us.
When you get to
that stage, then you
can move into a point of what is
called mystical cognition, what
I call direct knowing.
So what I mean by that is, I was
sitting down by the river once.
And I was actually listening.
I was in the moment.
When you're in the
moment you're not there.
Do you get that?
Well, you're here
and everywhere.
Well, your body is there.
Your body is there.
But you're sending out
the waves of discord
that thoughts sent out.
Human thoughts are like waves of
discord going out into nature.
If those thoughts were loving
and appreciative, like if you
go to Keukenhof
in the Netherlands
and look at the
tulip fields, there's
thousands of people
in there, but they go
because they love the flowers.
So it creates a
beautiful energy.
Too many people,
but lovely energy.
And so that creates a
beautiful field of energy.
So lifting your thoughts
that way is very good.
So when your feeling
is being transmitted
as information energy out
into the universe and you're
also receiving.
And so that's when you
get into this stage
of what I call direct knowing.
Now as I said, I was sitting
by the river one day,
sitting so still and silent,
that a big gray heron came
and sat in the
river just a little
away from me, a few
meters, maybe 5, 10 meters.
And it very clearly
didn't see me.
And yet I'm sitting
in full view,
but there was no disturbance.
And so nature doesn't
see us just as objects,
it sees us as energy.
And my energy was
still and quiet.
And even it coming
down, I was aware of it,
but nothing happened.
It didn't disturb
my field of energy.
And I have no idea how
long it stood there,
but these were very shy
birds in that river area.
And I had no idea
how long it was there
because I was in the
moment, and in the moment,
there's no linear
time, obviously.
And then the head of
the heron speared down
and it came up with
little fish, which
it flipped round and swallowed.
And a thought came in,
which I didn't really want,
but the thought was, oh,
that's not very nice.
And instantly, the bird
like, gave a great croak,
like it had seen
me and it took off.
And as it took off, from the
consciousness of this heron,
and not this heron, the whole
species, there's like a bubble,
like a moat of
knowing came into me.
And I realized
exactly the process.
I knew the whole process as
though you look at a book,
and as you see the cover,
you know every word
that's written in it.
It's instant.
This is how we can communicate.
This is how, if we
were to move into
our conscious intelligence.
And so I knew in that moment,
I knew exactly the relationship
of the heron and the fish.
And I knew in that
moment the relationship
of every animal that
eats another animal,
exactly how it works.
I know, that's the title
of your new book, Conscious
Intelligence, isn't it?
I love those two words together.
We don't often
hear them together.
Well you see, you go
together, because most
people live subconsciously.
Subconsciously, you
can use your intellect,
but you cannot subconsciously
use intelligence.
So intelligence should always
be called conscious intelligence
because you can't use
it if you're not fully
conscious, which is
why we have the world
in the mess we're in today.
To me, it's perfect, because
it's everybody's classroom.
But if everybody
used intelligence
consciously, then the world--
we wouldn't do the things we do.
We wouldn't criticize people we
love because it doesn't work.
We wouldn't criticize ourselves
because it doesn't work.
We would live very differently.
But we live subconsciously,
which means more of the same.
Yesterday repeated.
Yes the week, yes, the
year, yes, the lifetime.
And so we think 60,000
thoughts a minute.
Those thoughts are repetitive.
Words change, like computers
and technology and things
like that.
That's the thrust and the
direction of our thoughts
we've created over millennia.
And they become the flow of our
consciousness, the movement,
the direction we're going.
That doesn't change.
And the name of that
generally, is more
of the same, more of the same.
Everybody wants to be safe
and secure, more of the same.
People don't like taking risks.
What's a risk to
an immortal being?
The most dangerous
stuff we're facing today
is more of the same.
Like people are frightened
of earth changes.
That should be welcome.
What is terrifying is continuing
with more of the same.
That's the scary thought.
So starting to
communicate with nature
and starting to connect on
an energy level, which you're
explaining and being
conscious there
in the moment and
bonding with it
is, for you, the
answer to our society?
You think it's a big clue?
-No.
I don't think that's
the answer at all.
I think the answer is learning
what it means to love,
unconditional love.
Well, that's what nature
teaches us, isn't it?
No.
It doesn't because
nobody's listening.
But it does that.
It did that to you, didn't it?
Well, I really
was-- well, yeah.
It took me a while-- you see,
my first connection with nature
was away from people.
I didn't like people.
My model and father, they
lied to me very young.
They told me if
you go to school,
there will be
lovely people there
called teachers who will look
after you and teach you things.
And they weren't lovely.
And all they thought me was
how to lie to survive school.
So I was a very dominant,
right-brained child
in a very left-brained school,
which is just like putting
a pelican in with polar bears.
And it didn't work at all.
And so, I had to lie to survive.
And I left school at 14.
I mean I didn't even get
a certificate as a sign
of ever being at school.
But what I did find
there was reading.
And I realized that
I loved reading.
And so I read about
things that I enjoyed.
And one of those was nature.
And so I read a
lot about nature.
And then I began a
relationship with nature.
When I was six, my father
brought home 12 tomato plants.
And he gave six to me and
he put six in for himself.
He said, they're
yours to look after.
And so I used to go
to school at six.
And every day I came home,
I'd dig out my tomato plants
and look at the roots to
see if they were growing.
On after about two weeks,
his were looking good
and mine were not
looking good at all.
And he was looking
at them one day.
They'd been in
there maybe a month.
And mine were really
sick by this stage.
And he said, I
can't understand it.
They're exactly the
same plants as mine.
I said, I can't
understand it either.
I keep digging them up
and looking at the roots
and they won't grow.
So then he laughed and told
me, OK, you don't do that.
And I looked at these tomato
plants when I set them,
and they did recover when
I stopped digging them up.
And I just couldn't
help but thinking,
what an incredible thing.
They put down little
roots into the ground,
and they become
something different.
They bear these lovely
red fruits, tomatoes.
And it struck me as marvelous.
But as I got older,
I realized that most
people put roots in the ground
and like to be anchored.
And that's called
safe and secure.
But mostly, they want to put
their roots into the money
and the positions and wealth.
That becomes,
instead of the soil,
they use wealth and
things like that
and put their roots into
that and become just
as anchored and just a stuck
and static as my tomato plants
were.
There's no difference.
I'm thinking of the moments
where I had so many big panic
attacks and going through myself
through this is huge money
and crisis challenge.
And I feel a lot of people are
going through that right now.
And when we have those
huge panic attacks
and it feels like
in that moment,
there was only nature
that could do something.
There was only--
not do something,
but that's where I was
coming from at the time.
And all of a sudden, from
that suffering place,
there is this opening that
was created in the heart.
And it's like, sometimes
nature absorbs also and helps
us to go through
those hard moments
and can lift us up, literally.
I mean to me, they're are huge
key to huge challenging times
that the world is going
through right now.
I agree.
I'm not sure whether
you're trying
to keep me talking about
nature or whether you
actually believe what you said.
I don't believe nature
took you out of your panic.
I think you grew through it.
And you shifted your
focus, and began
to find your security
more in your heart
than in everything around you.
-But isn't that the whole key?
-Exactly.
And nature can
help that for sure.
But as I said,
nobody's listening.
But it's lovely to
connect with nature.
I remember also,
I remember I only
ever have one panic attack.
And we'd started a community.
I started a spiritual
community in which I lived in,
which was really creating
in the classroom for myself.
But there's a lot of
other people in there.
And I think I said yesterday
I didn't like them.
They didn't like me.
And then I found
I didn't like me.
But I ran out of money.
And I was sitting on the
bed one day in our caravan
which Americans call a
trailer, but a caravan.
And I was thinking,
my god, you know,
I have four children and
a wife and I have $200.
That's all I have,
absolutely nothing else.
And I was really getting
very, very anxious
and sort of sweating.
And I thought this is terrible.
And the door opened and
my late wife came in.
And she said to me, do you
know how much money we've got?
And foolishly, I said, no.
And she said, $4.
And she walked down
and shut the door.
She said she didn't slam it,
but she shut it very forcefully.
And do you know, I was
so humiliated, in my 40s.
I was so humiliated, so ashamed
of myself and so terrified
by this, I was sitting on
the bed and passed out.
I just passed out.
I realized that prior
to her coming in,
I'd only been practicing
for a panic attack.
So then I had a real one.
And when I came around,
you know what happened?
Nothing.
I still only had $4.
But I realized I
could never ever
be more frightened than that.
And having literally
passed out from fear,
it's as though I looked
at fear and thought,
God, you're a bit of a
toothless tiger, aren't you?
I mean, it's so
I've only got $4.
So what?
We can manage.
We'll get through this.
And in that moment, my
whole attitude changed.
And this is what abundance is.
Yes.
Abundance is a shift
in consciousness.
It's like I mentioned, every
time we look in a window
and say, I can't
afford, we feed poverty.
But every time-- and this
is where nature comes in,
when you look at nature
and you realize that it
doesn't go out window shopping.
Nature doesn't go
out looking for food.
Squirrels and many of the
animals go looking for food.
But so much of nature
stands passively there
and food comes to it.
A lot of the predators, ambush
predators, food comes to it.
Some of them hunt.
But nature doesn't ever look a
life-- nothing in nature looks
at life as lack.
We have a big focus on lack.
We don't have a
focus on abundance.
And so when you
focus on abundance
and you think from abundance,
and you feel from abundance,
and that's really important.
You feel abundance.
Then, that moves into
your consciousness.
But I suspect sometimes we
need to reach that point
issue of terror of not having
enough to realize finally,
I created this.
I don't have enough
because I always
focus on not having enough.
It feels to me like the
certain world needs to collapse.
And then there is pain and
suffering but our own world.
And all of a sudden, there
is this huge fear and panic.
And how am I going to do this?
And there's suffering so deep,
that you just have to-- I mean
I remember myself
being on my knees
and praying and asking
for another answer.
I've never found myself
in the situation before.
And it was so much--
it was just unbearable.
And at some point it's like,
there is this crossover.
There is this little-- how
would you call this step
from the suffering and
this pain and this locked
in world to one that is
expanded and unites everything?
That's an interesting question.
I don't know there is
a name for that state,
but there is a
shifting consciousness.
And I think we have to get to
that desperate point, which
everybody avoids.
But then, that place
is a knife edge.
And one edge one way is suicide.
And the other way is back
in to life with more power
than you've ever had.
Unfortunately, the suicide
rates in every country
are escalating at
an incredible speed.
And the people who
suddenly find life
in that incredible moment,
which we create, we manufacture.
But it's as though,
really, energy,
where you focus energy flows.
And when you're on that
razor edge, of everything's
gone wrong, you're broke.
You're frightened.
I think one of the
clues is when you
can actually admit that to
yourself, when you can say,
I have no money.
I'm terrified.
I don't know what to do.
I don't know where to go.
I don't know how to handle this.
And you can honestly accept
and acknowledge all the fears,
and then suddenly when
you've said them all,
it doesn't quite seem so bad.
I mean when I was a
farmer in Tasmania,
we went through the worst decade
of farming in the 20th century.
We arrived, emigrated, just
for the beginning of it,
like as if I needed that.
But I did need that.
I got there in perfect timing.
We went into drought.
First, we had a
caterpillar plague.
I mean, you can't imagine it.
Locusts, you know
what they're like.
Locusts, they're
big grasshoppers,
flying grasshoppers.
OK, a locust plague
strips everything.
Well, so does a caterpillar
plague, except they don't fly.
They crawl through your house.
You have to grease band
the house to keep them out.
You can't imagine.
You're hens, chickens,
they eat the caterpillars
and lay green eggs.
You can't eat the eggs.
And so, they go across your
farm and they strip it.
There's nothing left.
Everything's gone that's green.
It's brown.
And the cows were dying.
And then we went into drought.
And the drought went
on year after year.
That lasted three years.
Then we went into an economic
recession in agriculture.
In the cities,
everything was booming.
In agricultural,
prices of [INAUDIBLE]
went from $350 to $5.
And farmers were
suiciding everywhere.
And one day, we were desperate.
This was my late wife
and I, we were desperate.
And so we went up onto the
highest hills of our farm
and we said, what have we got?
We've got four lovely children.
We've got each other.
We've got love.
We've got a beautiful
farm, even if we
don't particularly own it.
We've got a lovely environment.
We've got the glorious
mountain up there.
And we went through all
the things that we've got.
Then we said, so
what don't we have?
Money.
And suddenly, changed
the whole perspective.
There was a great mountain
of what we did have
and one thing that was missing.
And what did we focus
on all the time?
Lack of money.
What an illusion.
Well, it was a truth and
yet it is an illusion.
Because we focus on lack and
where you focus, energy flows.
And so it could never break.
So we began to focus
on what we had.
We began to focus on the
muchness of our life,
the abundance in
our life, and that
began to change everything.
And gradually, it all got
better and better and better.
And it wasn't just because that
the situation farming didn't
improve for a long
time, but it's
because our focus had shifted.
And one of the great
principles to remember in life
is, where you
focus, energy flows.
And the energy is
your own energy.
And it's your life
and it's your energy.
But I hear that you
also really let it
in, like through
gratitude, you were
able to open up the hearts.
And I feel like the abundance,
the hearts, and our love,
all that is connected.
And once you start to let
it in, and then let fear go,
there's this part
that starts inside
and it keeps on
growing from there.
But we have to let it in now.
This is the big thing.
The time we're in now, not only
is it easier to let in, I mean,
it's absolutely imperative
to let it in now,
to open, to open to
life, to open to love,
to open to gratitude, to focus.
We don't have to stop
thinking, to open
to thinking thoughts of
gratitude and appreciation
and self-respect.
So many thoughts that people
have, over 80% are negative.
And that's 60,000.
That creates a direction,
and that's the direction
of that person's life.
And particularly now,
because at the moment where
we're in a three
dimensional reality.
And we're moving into
a dimensional shift,
shall we say.
Basically this means
everybody is polarizing.
And the polarity is-- I mean,
the North Pole is shifting up
to about 45 kilometers
a year, and everything
is-- we're in a world of
change, metamorphosis.
We're going to come out of
this like little butterflies
or little caterpillars.
And caterpillars don't fly.
And so, we're happening, we're
becoming either more deeply
embedded in the three
dimensional reality
through negative thinking,
I want, I want, et cetera.
Or we're embedding more deeply
in three dimensional reality.
Or we are moving into
thoughts of gratitude
and feelings of gratitude,
feelings of appreciation.
And then we're moving into a
fourth dimensional reality.
And those thoughts
and those feelings
will begin to change us in
very subtle but definite ways.
They'll be molecular
changes take place.
The cells of the body become
more resilient, more flexible.
The DNA have taken a message
of appreciation and respect
into the world around us.
And the world around
us is feeding us back
exactly what we're putting out.
And so changes take place.
And then when you get a shift
in energy really takes place,
then there's a fifth
dimensional potential there.
And there is a possibility
that this planet
could see the greatest
ascension there
has ever been in humanity.
And when I say
ascension, I don't
mean it in a religious sense.
What I mean by ascension
is, as the energy changes
that we're living in, and
we're all living on the same
in the same frame of reality.
But one part is becoming
more deeply embedded.
Another aspect is moving
into the fourth dimension.
Another aspect as
well through that,
ready for a higher
energetic shift,
which is another dimension.
Because dimensions
are consciousness.
And so you could-- let's
just say there was a tsunami
and it's sweeping
through a city.
Now, if you scream and run to
the north, which would be very
powerful urge to do that,
you've joined mass consciousness
and you probably
going to incarnate
back as a hunter gatherer.
And I mean that,
which is rather nice.
Their energy is so much
cleaner than ours is now.
There's no lost of saved
or good or bad or right
or wrong in this.
It's just the
direction we choose.
But equally, instead of
running from that tsunami,
you decide, OK, this is it.
This is where I choose love.
I've spent too
many lives running.
And so you walk
towards the tsunami.
Now, sure there's hills nearby
and you could walk up them.
That's sensible.
But there's no hills.
You're shut in this town and
the tsunami's 200 meters high.
And there's no way out,
so you walk toward it.
You can be frightened.
That's OK.
But you're going to use the
courage to go beyond your fear.
You walk toward it and you
realize, I choose love.
I choose truth.
What is the truth?
I am an immortal, magnificent,
metaphysical, multidimensional
being of love and light.
That is my truth.
This is who I am.
And I'm no longer going to
play the game of being a body.
And you walk toward it.
And in that moment, before
the water reaches you,
two things could happen.
One, it reaches you
and smashes your body,
and you're instantly
in the fifth dimension.
And you say, wow,
that was a good trade.
Or as it comes
toward you, your body
seems to dissolve into
light and every cell
follows the direction
of your consciousness.
And you simply take your
body to a higher dimension.
And that probability
is there very strongly.
That sorts out.
That could only happen
if for millennia
your direction has
been toward compassion
and courage and love.
Because it takes
an enormous amount
of courage to be who you are.
It's so easy to be
like other people are
to join herd, the throng,
to say their things,
to echo their sentiments.
The world's all gone wrong and
everything's bad and terrible.
It isn't.
If you look at a caterpillar,
it goes into metamorphosis.
Death joins in that cocoon.
And death takes away
the caterpillar.
But the same proteins
are left and life
reweaves those proteins into a
completely different creature,
which comes out, stretches
the buds of its wings,
gradually unfolds them,
they dry in the sun
and a flutterby flies away.
And the flutterby flies
and caterpillars crawl.
That's exactly where we're at.
Whether we fly with
light or whether we
go back to the stage of walking
on our legs and doing it again.
And that's OK.
That's not wrong or bad.
It's just the direction of
our millenias of incarnations.
So let's choose it fully.
Let's choose it
100%, not halfway to.
This is what we don't do.
We don't live life fully
with passion and love.
People-- let's
not make a ripple.
Let's not have
anybody look at us.
I mean one of the great fears
of humanity is public speaking.
And it's because there's
a fear of rejection.
And another even greater
one, the fear of ridicule.
And the time I think
of Louis the 16th,
ridicule was a weapon.
And they used it very savagely,
to ridicule each other
to the point of death.
And it's still those
fears are with us now.
And yet what is it?
Why are we afraid
to speak in public?
Simply because we
lack self-confidence.
How can you have
confidence if every day
you're spending three
quarters of the day
criticizing yourself?
It doesn't exactly
create confidence.
And some people
can speak in public
and still criticize themselves.
But we take away
from what we are.
Now I like to often
to look at the fact
that every animal lives
seven times the development
of his physical body.
We take 20 years to
develop a physical body.
Seven twenties are 140,
not too many around.
And why?
Because nothing in
nature talks to itself.
And it doesn't criticize itself.
It lives in the moment.
So we're never in the moment,
which takes away our energy.
And we're criticizing
ourselves constantly,
which takes away our energy.
So we've found a way
of living that reduces
us and takes away our energy.
And then we've created a
society to support this.
This is why we have hospitals
full up with people who
are dying because all
their life they've
been reducing their own energy,
to the point of disease,
which is out of harmony.
And disconnected from
everything that is.
So we need to regrow
back our roots
and reconnect to the field
and to everybody in this way
our universe can--
And that way of nature
is the wonderful part,
because when you look
at nature, you realize
everything is connected.
In nature there's
no competition.
Now we look through the eyes
of competition, and say, ah,
I can see the competition
in the nature.
But it isn't there.
What we're seeing is
a reflection of us.
What we're seeing
is what we believe.
What we're seeing is
through our knowledge.
What we're seeing is through
our intellect and our education
and everything like that.
But that isn't nature.
We're looking at an image we've
created of what nature is.
And nature is cooperation.
In the fifth dimensional
reality, they have sport,
but there's no competition.
It's noncompetitive sport.
Theirs is cooperative sport.
They cooperate and their
athletes far exceed ours.
Because when you
compete, you go against.
You cannot compete with.
You cooperate with.
You compete against.
And against is resistance.
And whether it's
yourself, whether it's
your own time, whether it's
the clock, or other people,
it's always against.
That reduces our final results.
--[INAUDIBLE], I
would like to end
this conversation
with your light
body and your experiences.
Do you actually travel
multidimensionally and had
those experiences or often do?
So OK, every human
being is a magnificent,
metaphysical, multi-dimensional
being of love and light.
So let's call that a light body.
We have a light body,
a body of pure energy.
When I was a child, I was
in school, as I told you.
And I found that if I
stared at the teacher,
I could imagine
them getting smaller
and smaller and smaller.
And as they got smaller,
their voice receded
until they weren't there.
And then I would--
well, I'd leave them off
at about the size of a fairy.
I couldn't hear them.
And then I would somehow
take myself away.
Now, I didn't understand it
and I called it daydreaming.
But I was really
aware, quite often
that I came back
it was like a jolt.
I'd go, where have I been?
I was wide awake, completely
awake, aware of the teacher
not being there and all that.
But when I came back-- so I
just put it down to daydreaming.
But when I got into my teens,
I forgot about all that.
But when I got into my '30s, I
was thinking about this and how
I did it and what happened.
And so I began to once
again look at that area.
And what I found
was that, yes, I
could move my state
of consciousness
away from identity and
physical and into this being
of love and light.
And then I could
move and travel.
So I'd travel into the world.
I'd travel into--
In my next book, I went
to visit three people.
I went into a hospital ward.
And one person, Henry, was
dying, terminal cancer.
And he was a real
devout Christian.
And another one was there, Jim.
And Jim was a complete atheist.
When you dead, that's the end.
And then there was another
one who wasn't there, Ben.
I wanted a highly
developed spiritual person.
What would happen
at their death?
And so I spend about two
years with each one of them
in the process of death.
For me, that wasn't two minutes.
But for them, it would be
like two years passed by.
And so the Christian, the
atheist, and the spiritual,
their experience after
death was completely
and utterly different.
And so I find things
like that fascinating.
I find it fascinating
to sit cross-legged
or in the Lotus position.
I can't do it physically, but
I love it metaphysically, about
100 meters or more above
New York or London,
haven't tried Paris.
I just watch the people and
I see that people cluster.
I watch them moving, and
I watch their energy,
their fields of energy.
And fields of energy cluster.
If your body's sick and
they take a blood sample,
they look to see if the
platelets of your blood
stack or stick or cluster.
And if you're
sick, they cluster.
You look at a city,
people cluster.
Anger finds its
own energy and they
walk among each
other in clusters,
and they never even know it.
Boredom, you know, fear,
wanting, they all grow cluster.
They cluster in the restaurants.
They cluster walking around.
They cluster in
shopping centers.
They leave one cluster
and join another.
It's scary.
Because none of them
know they're doing it.
But there was one person-- and I
mean, there are many in a city,
but there's one type of
person who does not cluster.
And that's the person
who is balanced,
who has a beautiful
relationship with themselves.
So what I'm saying here
is, is your relationship
with yourself, is your
relationship with life,
when your relationship
with yourself
is one of love and appreciation
and respect for yourself,
you do not cluster.
And you do not get the
diseases of clustering.
There's not a hospital on this
planet that has a ward or even
a room for people to go in and
die who dying from terminal,
unconditional love.
Because they don't go
to hospital to die.
Generally when
you're in that state,
you can just leave your body
when you feel is appropriate,
or maybe not quite
appropriate, but you're
ready to leave it anyway
because there's no attachment.
And so, I spend a lot of time
traveling metaphysically,
which is not astral.
Astral traveling is
when your body's asleep.
My body's wide awake.
I could do it walking
through a park.
And then I like to
move into trees.
So I'm walking along.
I generally come
to a standstill,
because I walked into
a tree once physically
and bounced off it
because I'd already
walked into it metaphysically.
And I sort of forgot.
And so you can walk
into a tree and you can
flow up the tree, up the trunk.
You can flow through
the branches.
You can flow out
into every leaf.
And you could feel the
sun on yourself as a leaf.
And you realize
that no human has
ever connected with the sun the
way that a leaf on a tree does.
It feels it.
It hears it.
It smells it.
It knows the sun with
an incredible intimacy.
It's an amazing
arrange of sounds.
And inside that leaf, you're
aware of the life forms
of energy of photosynthesis.
And I'll tell you
something else.
In every leaf, there are nature
spirits, myriads, millions.
And they take
sunlight as energy,
as light energy, down
into the branches
where a different
type of nature spirit
takes them on down to the
surface of the ground.
And another one
takes them on down,
right down to the finest root.
And right at the tip of every
root , sunlight is there,
that you couldn't
measure it or see
it with the human eye or any
of our microscopes or anything.
But the actual energy of
sun and the light of the sun
reaches every hair root where it
engages a profile of the soil.
Amazing, there is light deep
in the earth through the trees.
Nobody sees it and nobody
really cares, I guess.
Lots more than you think
are caring right now.
This conversation
is expanding fast.
I agree.
-You're not alone anymore.
-No, I know.
It's interesting.
You know, I've wandered
through lifetimes as a mystic,
and generally speaking truth.
But very, very used to being--
very familiar with suffering.
Nobody ever listened to mystics.
And so many lives are
ended tortured on the rack,
being pulled apart,
and screaming,
your bowels open, terrible.
And this time I think that
fear of lifetimes of that
was still there.
And so I feared being known in
the public for a long while.
It wasn't a fear
that was in my face.
It was a fear that
was in the background
all the time, just keeping me
away from publicity, keeping me
away from becoming well-known.
I just didn't want that.
Too much pain went with that.
But when my late
wife passed away,
I thought I'd loved
her all my life.
And what I found I had,
48 years, of course
there was the human
love as we know it,
but there was so much
emotional attachment.
And when I finally let her go,
and I let emotional attachment
go, and I knew when she said,
and she'd been gone a year,
and that's in my book Through
the Eyes of Love, Book One.
And when she said, I
need you to let me goes.
There was no, I'll see you
see when you come over.
I knew this is it.
51 years, and goodbye.
And I let go.
And it was not just a
physical or emotional thing.
There was a process.
I let go.
And it was like,
she was gone and I
moved to a higher
level of consciousness
and found this
unconditional love.
And that's what humanity
needs now, to love themselves
without judging
who they are today,
knowing that the person they
see in the mirror and the act
and the pantomime of
their life is nothing
more than an illusion, that
they are under all that,
this magnificent,
immortal, magnificent,
metaphysical, multi-dimensional
being of love and light.
And the way to get there
is keep choosing love.
Keep choosing love.
Every time there's a
confrontation, choose love.
Every time somebody is angry
with you, smile at them.
Choose love every time you're
criticizing yourself, stop.
Choose love.
Every situation in
your life, choose love.
That would have the
greatest transforming effect
of anything.
Well thank you, Michael.
Thank you for coming back.
Thank you for coming out.
-My pleasure.
Thank you for this moment.
Thank you.
It's perfect timing.
Thank you, Michael.
I won't even get tortured.
Not at all.
It will all be in love.
It's a lovely feeling.
It's a wonderful thing.
No, that fear has gone
completely, utterly gone.
But it was very real
for far too long.
And a lot of us
can relate to that.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
You're wonderful.
Thank you.
Much love, my
beautiful co-creators,
from South of France.